With this, we're getting towards the end of our physics detour.
Some of the key takeaways for the MRI data flow.
Although T1 and T2-weighted sequences are quite popular,
there are many more types of MRI sequences.
You might see things like FLAIR, diffusion-weighted imaging,
diffusion tensor imaging, proton density imaging, and so on.
On top of that, scanner manufacturers sometimes include
their own proprietary pulse sequences and
reconstruction algorithms and give them unique names.
As you have heard from Maslow's presentation,
some sequences also are taken with contrast media
injected to highlight certain types of structures.
So as someone who would be building algorithms that analyzes data,
you need to be aware that not all MRI sequences are created equal,
and things will show up differently depending on the sequence type.
Also, unlike CT data,
there is no such thing as Hounsfield unit scale for MR data.
The absolute values in MR imaging carry little meaning,
although they are consistent for the same pulse sequence type.
Radiologists talk about hypointensity or
hyperintensity when they discuss brighter or darker areas on MRIs.
Lastly, even more so than with CT,
there are MRI data potentially presents
lots of interesting opportunities for the data scientists.
The design of pulse sequences, reconstruction pipelines,
fraud data analysis, are
all areas that could benefit from robust machine learning algorithm.
However, in this course,
we will not go into these areas,
we will focus on image analysis.
But at the same time, we will post some links in the concluding part of
this module and move on to some of the common 3D image analysis and visualization tasks.